---
layout: post
title: "SDSS DR7 Galaxy Angular Power Spectrum"
date: 2012-04-11
categories: papers
summary: "We calculate the SDSS DR7 galaxy angular power spectrum."
authors: "Brett Hayes, Robert J. Brunner"
---

### The SDSS Galaxy Angular Two-Point Correlation Function
 
**Authors**: Brett Hayes, Robert J. Brunner, and Ashley Ross  
**Published**:   April 11, 2012  
**DOI**: 10.1111/j.1365-2966.2012.20440.x

### Access:

[MNRAS Journal Article](http://mnras.oxfordjournals.org/content/421/3/2043)  
[NASA ADS Record](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2012MNRAS.421.2043H)  
[arXiv Posting](http://arxiv.org/abs/1112.5723)  


### Abstract:

We calculate the angular power spectrum of galaxies selected from the
Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) Data Release 7 (DR7) by using a
quadratic estimation method with KL-compression. The primary data sample
includes over 18 million galaxies covering more than 5,700 square
degrees after masking areas with bright objects, reddening greater than
0.2 magnitudes, and seeing of more than 1.5 arcseconds.  We test for
systematic effects by calculating the angular power spectrum by SDSS
stripe and find that these measurements are minimally affected by seeing
and reddening.  We calculate the angular power spectrum for $\ell \le
200$ multipoles by using 40 bandpowers for the full sample, and $\ell
\le 1000$ multipoles using 50 bandpowers for individual stripes.  We
also calculate the angular power spectrum for this sample separated into
3 magnitude bins with mean redshifts of $z = 0.171$, $z = 0.217$, and $z
= 0.261$ to examine the evolution of the angular power spectrum.  We
determine the theoretical linear angular power spectrum by projecting
the 3D power spectrum to two dimensions for a basic comparison to our
observational results.  By minimizing the $\chi^2$ fit between these
data and the theoretical linear angular power spectrum we measure a
loosely-constrained fit of $\Omega_m = 0.31^{+0.18}_{-0.11}$ with a
linear bias of $b = 0.94 \pm 0.04$.



### Implementation

The measurements presented in this paper made use of our angular power
spectrum [code](/code/aps-code.html), which we have publicly released.

### Data

We have released the [data](/data/sdssDR7-aps-data.html) used in the
measurements of the SDSS DR7 Angular Power Spectrum, including APS data,
window functions and Fisher Matrices. You can also access the  for the
APS estimator.


### Contact:

If you have any questions about the method, data, or code, please contact
the authors.
