---
layout: post
title: "The SDSS DR7 Galaxy Angular Power Spectrum: Volume-Limits and Galaxy Morphology"
date: 2013-02-01
categories: papers
summary: "We calculate the SDSS DR7 galaxy angular power spectrum."
authors: "Brett Hayes, Robert J. Brunner"
---

### The SDSS Galaxy Angular Two-Point Correlation Function
 
**Authors**: Brett Hayes and Robert J. Brunner  
**Published**:   February 1, 2013  
**DOI**: 10.1093/mnras/sts290

### Access:

[MNRAS Journal Article](http://mnras.oxfordjournals.org/content/428/4/3487)  
[NASA ADS Record](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013MNRAS.428.3487H)  
[arXiv Posting](http://arxiv.org/abs/1211.1420)  
[LCDM Repository](/static/papers/sdssdr7-aps2.pdf)

### Abstract:

We use a quadratic estimator with KL-compression to calculate the
angular power spectrum of a volume-limited Sloan Digital Sky Survey
(SDSS) Data Release 7 (DR7) galaxy sample out to $\ell = 200$.  We also
determine the angular power spectrum of selected subsamples with
photometric redshifts $z < 0.3$ and $0.3 < z <0.4$ to examine the
possible evolution of the angular power spectrum, as well as early-type
and late-type galaxy subsamples to examine the relative linear bias.  In
addition, we calculate the angular power spectrum of the SDSS DR7 main
galaxy sample in a $\sim 53.7$ square degree area out to $l = 1600$ to
determine the SDSS DR7 angular power spectrum to high multipoles.  We
perform a $\chi^2$ fit to compare the resulting angular power spectra to
theoretical nonlinear angular power spectra to extract cosmological
parameters and the linear bias.  We find the best-fit cosmological
parameters of $\Omega_m = 0.267 \pm 0.038$ and $\Omega_b = 0.045 \pm
0.012$.  We find an overall linear bias of $b = 1.075 \pm 0.056$, an
early-type bias of $b_{e} = 1.727 \pm 0.065$, and a late-type bias of
$b_{l} = 1.256 \pm 0.051$.  Finally, we present evidence of a selective
misclassification of late-type galaxies as stars by the SDSS photometric
data reduction pipeline in areas of high stellar density (e.g.,
at low Galactic latitudes).


### Implementation

The measurements presented in this paper made use of our angular power
spectrum [code](/code/aps-code.html), which we have publicly released.

### Data

We have released the [data](/data/sdssDR7-aps-data.html) used in the
measurements of the SDSS DR7 Angular Power Spectrum, including APS data,
window functions and Fisher Matrices. You can also access the  for the
APS estimator.


### Contact:

If you have any questions about the method, data, or code, please contact
the authors.
