---
layout: post
title: "Narrow absorption line variability in repeat quasar observations from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey"
date: 2013-02-03
categories: papers
summary: "We have identified, for the first time ever, variability in intervening narrow absorption quasar systems."
authors: "Troy Hacker, Robert J. Brunner"
---

### Narrow absorption line variability in repeat quasar observations from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey
 
**Authors**: Troy Hacker, Robert J. Brunner, Britt Lundgren, and Don York  
**Published**:   September 1, 2013  
**DOI**: 10.1093/mnras/stt1022

### Access:

[MNRAS Journal Article](http://mnras.oxfordjournals.org/content/434/1/163)  
[NASA ADS Record](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/abs/2013MNRAS.434..163H)  
[arXiv Posting](http://arxiv.org/abs/1307.7832)  


### Abstract:

We present the results from a time domain study of absorption lines
detected in quasar spectra with repeat observations from the Sloan
Digital Sky Survey Data Release 7 (SDSS DR7). Beginning with over 4500
unique time separation baselines of various absorption line species
identified in the SDSS DR7 quasar spectra, we create a catalogue of 2522
quasar absorption line systems with two to eight repeat observations,
representing the largest collection of unbiased and homogeneous
multi-epoch absorption systems ever published. To investigate these
systems for time variability of narrow absorption lines, we refine this
sample based on the reliability of the system detection, the proximity
of pixels with bright sky contamination to individual absorption lines,
and the quality of the continuum fit. Variability measurements of this
sub-sample based on the absorption line equivalent widths yield a total
of 33 systems with indications of significantly variable absorption
strengths on time-scales ranging from one day to several years in the
rest frame of the absorption system. Of these, at least 10 are from a
class known as intervening absorption systems caused by foreground
galaxies along the line of sight to the background quasar. This is the
first evidence of possible absorption line variability detected in
intervening systems, and their short time-scale variations suggest that
small-scale structures (~10--100 au) are likely to exist in their host
foreground galaxies.

### Data

We have released the [data](/research/var/nalvar.html) used in these
measurements.

### Contact:

If you have any questions about the method, data, or code, please contact
the authors.
