---
layout: post
title: "TPZ: Trees for Photo-Z"
date: 2013-03-15
categories: papers
summary: "We have developed a new random forest technique for estimating photometric redshift PDFs."
authors: "Matias Carrasco-Kind, Robert J. Brunner"
---

### TPZ: photometric redshift PDFs and ancillary information by using prediction trees and random forests

**Authors**: Matias Carrasco Kind and Robert J. Brunner  
**Published**:   June 21, 2013  
**DOI**: 10.1093/mnras/stt574

### Access:
[MNRAS Journal Article](http://mnras.oxfordjournals.org/content/432/2/1483)  
[NASA ADS Record](http://adsabs.harvard.edu/cgi-bin/bib_query?arXiv:1303.7269)  
[arXiv Posting](http://arxiv.org/abs/1303.7269)  
[LCDM Repository](/static/papers/tpz.pdf)

### Abstract:
With the growth of large photometric surveys, accurately estimating
photometric redshifts, preferably as a probability density function
(PDF), and fully understanding the implicit systematic uncertainties in
this process, has become increasingly important. In this paper, we
present a new, publicly available, parallel, machine learning algorithm
that generates photometric redshift PDFs by using prediction trees and
random forest techniques, which we have named TPZ. This new algorithm
incorporates measurement errors into the calculation while also dealing
efficiently with missing values in the data. In addition, our
implementation of this algorithm provides supplementary information
regarding the data being analysed, including unbiased estimates of the
accuracy of the technique without resorting to a validation data set,
identification of poor photometric redshift areas within the parameter
space occupied by the spectroscopic training data, a quantification of
the relative importance of the variables used to construct the PDF, and
a robust identification of outliers. This extra information can be used
to optimally target new spectroscopic observations and to improve the
overall efficacy of the redshift estimation. We have tested TPZ on
galaxy samples drawn from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) main
galaxy sample and from the Deep Extragalactic Evolutionary Probe-2
(DEEP2) survey, obtaining excellent results in each case. We also have
tested our implementation by participating in the PHAT1 project, which
is a blind photometric redshift contest, finding that TPZ performs
comparable to if not better than other empirical photometric redshift
algorithms. Finally, we discuss the various parameters that control the
operation of TPZ, the specific limitations of this approach and an
application of photometric redshift PDFs.

### Implementation

The most recent implementation of the TPZ algorithm is now included in
the Machine Learning for Photometric Redshift (MLZ) code. Both the [MLZ
code](/static/code/MLZ/MLZ-1.0.tar.gz) and the [MLZ
Manual](/static/code/mlz/MLZ-1.0/doc/html/index.html) are freely available.

The original version of the TPZ code is only available upon request.

### Contact:

If you have any questions about the method or the code, please contact
the authors.
